#summary Things we might want to aim for in Cortex 6

== IO improvements ==

FileIndexedIO has less than ideal performance when opening very large files, as it reads the whole index at open time. This somewhat negates any advantages subsequent random access gives. It'd be great to address this, either with optimisations to FileIndexedIO or with a new backend perhaps based around HDF5.

== Data improvements ==

Currently all Data subclasses share the same lazy-copy-on-write behaviour implemented in !TypedData.h. This is likely counterproductive for the very small datatypes like those typedefed in !SimpleTypedData.h - there's a whole extra !RefCounted object behind the scenes when we might be storing something as simple as a char. It might be good to replace the single !TypedData class with a !SimpleTypedData class (with direct storage in the Data instance) and a !ComplexTypedData (or !VectorTypedData?) class with the existing lazy-copy-on write implementation. The interface of both these classes would be identical so we probably don't need to change any other code.

It might also be interesting to provide simple methods for getting threadsafe access to !TypedData::readable() and !TypedData::writable(). These could allow multiple concurrent readers but only a single writer.

== Parameter improvements ==

It'd be very useful to have a standard way of knowing when a Parameter value has changed. We currently do this manually using the slightly ugly updateCount mechanism which is only implemented in IECoreMaya. It might be great to have a Parameter::hash() method which gives a (kindof) unique hash for the current value. How we would quickly come up with reasonable hashes for very large Objects like !MeshPrimitives could be a tricky question however.

== Op improvements ==

It'd be great to be able to pass arguments to Op::operate() (and similar methods elsewhere), so that a single Op instance could easily be used with multiple sets of arguments, each in a different thread. This is motivated by the todo in IECore/!CachedReader.cpp, and also earlier questions about the overhead of instantiating multiple identical ops in the same process. 

Another particularly useful possibility this introduces could be the ability to pass !LayeredDict and !SubstitutedDict style argument lists to C++ ops. We currently do this for procedurals in python and it's invaluable but we hit problems when we need to pass such arguments to C++. We could maybe achieve this by having some sort of !CompoundObjectInterface in C++, which defines a minimal API for getting parameter values.

One implication of this is that Ops really really have to stop cheating and getting their values from the parameters rather than from the operands passed to doOperation().

== Procedural improvements ==

We should revisit the ongoing argument we have internally about whether a renderer should be passed to Procedural::bound(). We have several procedurals which do change bounding box depending on whether they're rendered in GL or RenderMan, and it'd be nice to query this accurately. The argument against is that you should be able to always get a worst case bound - perhaps that is achieved by passing 0 for the renderer?

== IECoreHoudini improvements ==

It'd be great to move IECoreHoudini out of contrib and have it as a standard part of cortex. We might want to make minor adjustments so it conforms more closely to the cortex coding conventions, and also perhaps standardise a !ParameterisedHolder api between IECoreMaya and IECoreHoudini.

== IECoreNuke improvements ==

It'd be great to see a !ToCoreConverter which takes a Nuke node and returns an !ImagePrimitive directly. Currently we render to temp files and then reread them which is a little ugly and inefficient.


== OIIO Support (carsten.kolve) ==
This is really more a discussion item than a soid aim. OIIO has made a lot of progress in the last year and now has support for nearly all of the relevant image formats, including exr, dpx and cin. If it was used as a backend to the ImagePrimitive, one could potentially benefit from a whole lot of active development on the project.
http://openimageio.org/ 

== Alembic Support (carsten.kolve) ==
Ok - this is probably even more premature (the first version is not even released). But in case it really does get the broad support from 3rd party developers that was promised, then it could be tempting to write reader/writer to and from common cortex primitives for interchange and compatibility purposes.